\input texinfo @c -*- texinfo -*-

@settitle avplay Documentation
@titlepage
@center @titlefont{avplay Documentation}
@end titlepage

@top

@contents

@chapter Synopsis

@example
@c man begin SYNOPSIS
avplay [options] @file{input_file}
@c man end
@end example

@chapter Description
@c man begin DESCRIPTION

avplay is a very simple and portable media player using the Libav
libraries and the SDL library. It is mostly used as a testbed for the
various Libav APIs.
@c man end

@chapter Options
@c man begin OPTIONS

@include avtools-common-opts.texi

@section Main options

@table @option
@item -x @var{width}
Force displayed width.
@item -y @var{height}
Force displayed height.
@item -s @var{size}
This option has been removed. Use private format options for specifying the
input video size.  For example with the rawvideo demuxer you need to specify the
option @var{video_size}.
@item -an
Disable audio.
@item -vn
Disable video.
@item -ss @var{pos}
Seek to a given position in seconds.
@item -t @var{duration}
play <duration> seconds of audio/video
@item -bytes
Seek by bytes.
@item -nodisp
Disable graphical display.
@item -f @var{fmt}
Force format.
@item -window_title @var{title}
Set window title (default is the input filename).
@item -loop @var{number}
Loops movie playback <number> times. 0 means forever.
@item -vf @var{filter_graph}
@var{filter_graph} is a description of the filter graph to apply to
the input video.
Use the option "-filters" to show all the available filters (including
also sources and sinks).

@end table

@section Advanced options
@table @option
@item -pix_fmt @var{format}
This option has been removed. Use private options for specifying the
input pixel format. For example with the rawvideo demuxer you need to specify
the option @var{pixel_format}.
@item -stats
Show the stream duration, the codec parameters, the current position in
the stream and the audio/video synchronisation drift.
@item -bug
Work around bugs.
@item -fast
Non-spec-compliant optimizations.
@item -genpts
Generate pts.
@item -rtp_tcp
Force RTP/TCP protocol usage instead of RTP/UDP. It is only meaningful
if you are streaming with the RTSP protocol.
@item -sync @var{type}
Set the master clock to audio (@code{type=audio}), video
(@code{type=video}) or external (@code{type=ext}). Default is audio. The
master clock is used to control audio-video synchronization. Most media
players use audio as master clock, but in some cases (streaming or high
quality broadcast) it is necessary to change that. This option is mainly
used for debugging purposes.
@item -threads @var{count}
Set the thread count.
@item -ast @var{audio_stream_number}
Select the desired audio stream number, counting from 0. The number
refers to the list of all the input audio streams. If it is greater
than the number of audio streams minus one, then the last one is
selected, if it is negative the audio playback is disabled.
@item -vst @var{video_stream_number}
Select the desired video stream number, counting from 0. The number
refers to the list of all the input video streams. If it is greater
than the number of video streams minus one, then the last one is
selected, if it is negative the video playback is disabled.
@item -sst @var{subtitle_stream_number}
Select the desired subtitle stream number, counting from 0. The number
refers to the list of all the input subtitle streams. If it is greater
than the number of subtitle streams minus one, then the last one is
selected, if it is negative the subtitle rendering is disabled.
@item -noautoexit
Do not exit after playback is finished.
@item -exitonkeydown
Exit if any key is pressed.
@item -exitonmousedown
Exit if any mouse button is pressed.
@item -noautorotate
Disable automatically rotating video based on file metadata.
@end table

@section While playing

@table @key
@item q, ESC
Quit.

@item f
Toggle full screen.

@item p, SPC
Pause.

@item a
Cycle audio channel.

@item v
Cycle video channel.

@item t
Cycle subtitle channel.

@item w
Show audio waves.

@item left/right
Seek backward/forward 10 seconds.

@item down/up
Seek backward/forward 1 minute.

@item PGDOWN/PGUP
Seek to the previous/next chapter.

@item mouse click
Seek to percentage in file corresponding to fraction of width.

@end table

@c man end

@include eval.texi
@include decoders.texi
@include demuxers.texi
@include muxers.texi
@include indevs.texi
@include outdevs.texi
@include protocols.texi
@include filters.texi

@ignore

@setfilename avplay
@settitle avplay media player

@c man begin SEEALSO
avconv(1), avprobe(1) and the Libav HTML documentation
@c man end

@c man begin AUTHORS
The Libav developers
@c man end

@end ignore

@bye
