\input texinfo @c -*- texinfo -*-
@documentencoding UTF-8

@settitle ffplay Documentation
@titlepage
@center @titlefont{ffplay Documentation}
@end titlepage

@top

@contents

@chapter Synopsis

ffplay [@var{options}] [@file{input_file}]

@chapter Description
@c man begin DESCRIPTION

FFplay is a very simple and portable media player using the FFmpeg
libraries and the SDL library. It is mostly used as a testbed for the
various FFmpeg APIs.
@c man end

@chapter Options
@c man begin OPTIONS

@include fftools-common-opts.texi

@section Main options

@table @option
@item -x @var{width}
Force displayed width.
@item -y @var{height}
Force displayed height.
@item -s @var{size}
Set frame size (WxH or abbreviation), needed for videos which do
not contain a header with the frame size like raw YUV.  This option
has been deprecated in favor of private options, try -video_size.
@item -fs
Start in fullscreen mode.
@item -an
Disable audio.
@item -vn
Disable video.
@item -sn
Disable subtitles.
@item -ss @var{pos}
Seek to @var{pos}. Note that in most formats it is not possible to seek
exactly, so @command{ffplay} will seek to the nearest seek point to
@var{pos}.

@var{pos} must be a time duration specification,
see @ref{time duration syntax,,the Time duration section in the ffmpeg-utils(1) manual,ffmpeg-utils}.
@item -t @var{duration}
Play @var{duration} seconds of audio/video.

@var{duration} must be a time duration specification,
see @ref{time duration syntax,,the Time duration section in the ffmpeg-utils(1) manual,ffmpeg-utils}.
@item -bytes
Seek by bytes.
@item -nodisp
Disable graphical display.
@item -f @var{fmt}
Force format.
@item -window_title @var{title}
Set window title (default is the input filename).
@item -loop @var{number}
Loops movie playback <number> times. 0 means forever.
@item -showmode @var{mode}
Set the show mode to use.
Available values for @var{mode} are:
@table @samp
@item 0, video
show video
@item 1, waves
show audio waves
@item 2, rdft
show audio frequency band using RDFT ((Inverse) Real Discrete Fourier Transform)
@end table

Default value is "video", if video is not present or cannot be played
"rdft" is automatically selected.

You can interactively cycle through the available show modes by
pressing the key @key{w}.

@item -vf @var{filtergraph}
Create the filtergraph specified by @var{filtergraph} and use it to
filter the video stream.

@var{filtergraph} is a description of the filtergraph to apply to
the stream, and must have a single video input and a single video
output. In the filtergraph, the input is associated to the label
@code{in}, and the output to the label @code{out}. See the
ffmpeg-filters manual for more information about the filtergraph
syntax.

You can specify this parameter multiple times and cycle through the specified
filtergraphs along with the show modes by pressing the key @key{w}.

@item -af @var{filtergraph}
@var{filtergraph} is a description of the filtergraph to apply to
the input audio.
Use the option "-filters" to show all the available filters (including
sources and sinks).

@item -i @var{input_file}
Read @var{input_file}.
@end table

@section Advanced options
@table @option
@item -pix_fmt @var{format}
Set pixel format.
This option has been deprecated in favor of private options, try -pixel_format.

@item -stats
Print several playback statistics, in particular show the stream
duration, the codec parameters, the current position in the stream and
the audio/video synchronisation drift. It is on by default, to
explicitly disable it you need to specify @code{-nostats}.

@item -fast
Non-spec-compliant optimizations.
@item -genpts
Generate pts.
@item -sync @var{type}
Set the master clock to audio (@code{type=audio}), video
(@code{type=video}) or external (@code{type=ext}). Default is audio. The
master clock is used to control audio-video synchronization. Most media
players use audio as master clock, but in some cases (streaming or high
quality broadcast) it is necessary to change that. This option is mainly
used for debugging purposes.
@item -ast @var{audio_stream_specifier}
Select the desired audio stream using the given stream specifier. The stream
specifiers are described in the @ref{Stream specifiers} chapter. If this option
is not specified, the "best" audio stream is selected in the program of the
already selected video stream.
@item -vst @var{video_stream_specifier}
Select the desired video stream using the given stream specifier. The stream
specifiers are described in the @ref{Stream specifiers} chapter. If this option
is not specified, the "best" video stream is selected.
@item -sst @var{subtitle_stream_specifier}
Select the desired subtitle stream using the given stream specifier. The stream
specifiers are described in the @ref{Stream specifiers} chapter. If this option
is not specified, the "best" subtitle stream is selected in the program of the
already selected video or audio stream.
@item -autoexit
Exit when video is done playing.
@item -exitonkeydown
Exit if any key is pressed.
@item -exitonmousedown
Exit if any mouse button is pressed.

@item -codec:@var{media_specifier} @var{codec_name}
Force a specific decoder implementation for the stream identified by
@var{media_specifier}, which can assume the values @code{a} (audio),
@code{v} (video), and @code{s} subtitle.

@item -acodec @var{codec_name}
Force a specific audio decoder.

@item -vcodec @var{codec_name}
Force a specific video decoder.

@item -scodec @var{codec_name}
Force a specific subtitle decoder.

@item -autorotate
Automatically rotate the video according to file metadata. Enabled by
default, use @option{-noautorotate} to disable it.

@item -framedrop
Drop video frames if video is out of sync. Enabled by default if the master
clock is not set to video. Use this option to enable frame dropping for all
master clock sources, use @option{-noframedrop} to disable it.

@item -infbuf
Do not limit the input buffer size, read as much data as possible from the
input as soon as possible. Enabled by default for realtime streams, where data
may be dropped if not read in time. Use this option to enable infinite buffers
for all inputs, use @option{-noinfbuf} to disable it.

@end table

@section While playing

@table @key
@item q, ESC
Quit.

@item f
Toggle full screen.

@item p, SPC
Pause.

@item a
Cycle audio channel in the current program.

@item v
Cycle video channel.

@item t
Cycle subtitle channel in the current program.

@item c
Cycle program.

@item w
Cycle video filters or show modes.

@item s
Step to the next frame.

Pause if the stream is not already paused, step to the next video
frame, and pause.

@item left/right
Seek backward/forward 10 seconds.

@item down/up
Seek backward/forward 1 minute.

@item page down/page up
Seek to the previous/next chapter.
or if there are no chapters
Seek backward/forward 10 minutes.

@item mouse click
Seek to percentage in file corresponding to fraction of width.

@end table

@c man end

@include config.texi
@ifset config-all
@set config-readonly
@ifset config-avutil
@include utils.texi
@end ifset
@ifset config-avcodec
@include codecs.texi
@include bitstream_filters.texi
@end ifset
@ifset config-avformat
@include formats.texi
@include protocols.texi
@end ifset
@ifset config-avdevice
@include devices.texi
@end ifset
@ifset config-swresample
@include resampler.texi
@end ifset
@ifset config-swscale
@include scaler.texi
@end ifset
@ifset config-avfilter
@include filters.texi
@end ifset
@end ifset

@chapter See Also

@ifhtml
@ifset config-all
@url{ffplay.html,ffplay},
@end ifset
@ifset config-not-all
@url{ffplay-all.html,ffmpeg-all},
@end ifset
@url{ffmpeg.html,ffmpeg}, @url{ffprobe.html,ffprobe}, @url{ffserver.html,ffserver},
@url{ffmpeg-utils.html,ffmpeg-utils},
@url{ffmpeg-scaler.html,ffmpeg-scaler},
@url{ffmpeg-resampler.html,ffmpeg-resampler},
@url{ffmpeg-codecs.html,ffmpeg-codecs},
@url{ffmpeg-bitstream-filters.html,ffmpeg-bitstream-filters},
@url{ffmpeg-formats.html,ffmpeg-formats},
@url{ffmpeg-devices.html,ffmpeg-devices},
@url{ffmpeg-protocols.html,ffmpeg-protocols},
@url{ffmpeg-filters.html,ffmpeg-filters}
@end ifhtml

@ifnothtml
@ifset config-all
ffplay(1),
@end ifset
@ifset config-not-all
ffplay-all(1),
@end ifset
ffmpeg(1), ffprobe(1), ffserver(1),
ffmpeg-utils(1), ffmpeg-scaler(1), ffmpeg-resampler(1),
ffmpeg-codecs(1), ffmpeg-bitstream-filters(1), ffmpeg-formats(1),
ffmpeg-devices(1), ffmpeg-protocols(1), ffmpeg-filters(1)
@end ifnothtml

@include authors.texi

@ignore

@setfilename ffplay
@settitle FFplay media player

@end ignore

@bye
